Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From hanselminutes.com Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan and Madison show number
four 67. Okay. This episode,
Scott talks with doctor. How
about making robots smarter? Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today I am
talking with dr. Ayana Howard.
She is from zero Biotics
and she has her BS
in electrical engineering. Her master's
from the university of Southern
California and a PhD in
electrical engineering. So I am
quite intimidated and thrilled, thrilled,
thrilled to be talking to
you. Thank you. Thank you.
I'm excited to be on
the show. Thank you. Yeah.
And you were at JPL
also, weren't you? I was,
I was there for, Oh,
over 10 years, almost 15
years working on Mars stuff.
Oh, wow. That's pretty exciting.
I had the pleasure of
talking with, I think the
CTO of JPL recently in
where were we somewhere in
Scandinavia. Oh, what did he
say? We talked about kind
of the, the future of
technology, a in a general
sense and where he thinks
that if we invest more
into space and into Mars,
that it will only help
us here on, on the
ground. This was a Tom
Sodestrom, but it's true. If
you look at a lot
of the research, that's come
out of the NASA world.
A lot of it we
use today. I mean, even
something as simple as tango
are as simple as eye
glasses for playing our golf
balls. A lot of things
we just assume it's like,
Oh, this is commercial actually
came out of NASA research.
Have you read the, this
is random, but have you
read the Martian? Have you
seen this book? The Martian?
No. Who is this? Who's
the author. Oh my goodness.
Let me get the author
for you. So this is
the best book that I
have read all, all year
long. And the author is
Andy ware, w E I
R. And what the Martian
is all about is a
theoretical human Mars landing, where
one of the individuals get
stranded and he has, you
know, they just basically, you
know, there was a storm
and they had to take
off and they left in
there accidentally, and now he
has to survive for six
or 700 days. And it's
completely plausible because it's really
focused on the science, like
how he fixes the water
reclaimer and how he gets
potatoes growing in a little
greenhouse. And you know, all
the little things involved and
all that tech is based
on, you know, if they
had left anyone else who
didn't have a really strong
sense of science, he would
have been dead. He would
have been, he would have
lasted up until the night.
No, that's actually great. So
that means it was assumed
there was some infrastructures, so
he could grab some of
the technology. They've landed, they've
set up their tent. They've
got the couple of rovers.
He also has, interestingly, the
other things that they left
on Mars over the last
20 years or 15 years.
So you got solar panels,
he's got some old microprocessors
and he can program up
some, a heater in fact,
cause the rovers have internal
heaters. Okay. Okay. Right. So,
you know, I'm trying to
get my nontechnical friends to
read this, but as soon
as they see that it's
Oh, well he did this
many amps through this and
then, Oh, that's too technical.
Yeah, absolutely fascinating and wonderful
example of real technology on
a, on a foreign, Oh,
I'll have to take a
look at it. So tell
me about XY robotics, because
it seems like you guys
do many, many things And
we do so is our
robotics is actually a Georgia
tech startup. So the technology
that our robotics focus on
is on technology that can
impact humankind, primarily individuals with
disabilities. And we focus right
now on children with disabilities.
And so the goal is,
is to take what we
take for granted. So if
you think about the wording
of pervasive technologies, which are
tablets and cell phones and
computers and things that we
just naturally assume everyone uses,
if you have issues, if
you have physical issues in
terms of impairments, it's difficult
for you to say pension
swipe, or if you have
any cognitive impairments, so that
it's difficult for you to
focus our sensory impairments, example,
children with autism, this technology,
the pervasive technology we take
advantage of becomes difficult to
use. So we're trying to
kind of bridge that gap
between what's already out there
and these children with disabilities
And are these custom custom
machines, or are you making
modifications to machines that already
exist? So we designed, you
can think of it as
interfaces. So in terms of
the hardware, their interfaces to
say tablet, computers, touchscreen interfaces,
and what technology the child
already uses. So as an
example, if, if a child
is using a wheelchair, they
typically control it with a
joystick. So is there a
way I can just take
my joystick, which I'm very
used to using and hook
it up to something. So
I can use those same
motions to now interact with
tablet apps. So we're providing
the interface between what's already
being used by the child
and what's already out there,
this pervasive technology. Interesting. When
I read about the things
that they've done to Steve
for Stephen Hawking's because he's,
he's singular, he gets customer
behavior, he gets custom, everything,
you know, he has his
own software and his own
equipment. Can you do that
for every child or do
you, can you make it
more generic? Well, we have
to make it more generic
because custom also means very
costly. And so these children
already have in terms of
medical costs and having to
go through therapy, the price
that their parents are paying
are ready financially is unbelievable.
And so, you know, a
child could have a custom
solution, but it's not realistic.
And so what we're trying
to do is create solutions
that actually adapt to whatever
the ability of the child
is. So that's adaptive both
in a software sense. And
then in whatever hardware that
you create, that interfaces, Yes.
Or the way we adapt,
we focus on the software.
So we take the hardware.
It's generic. It provides, you
could think of it as
a hardware, providing all inputs.
So all the possible inputs.
And then the software is
where you filter it out.
You feel out good data
from that data. So we
use the software to drive
the magic of interaction. You
know, I'm, I'm just now
getting my kids involved in,
you know, little robots, basic
stuff, you know, a couple
of motors. And I think
we're taking a big track.
You know, the, remember the
big track from the eighties,
the big, see, it was
almost like a Mars Lander,
and we're going to play
that. We're always going to
put in a plug, a
raspberry PI into that, but
I'm realizing that from again,
I speaking from a place
of ignorance, so forgive me,
but it doesn't feel like
a lot has really happened.
There's, you know, voltage to
a motor and the motor
spins, the motor maybe has
a clutch, or it doesn't
have a clutch, but we're
finding ourselves really the motor
doesn't know when to stop
or the robot crashes into
the wall. There's so many
layers of abstractions that we're
missing. Why is that? And
why are the robots so
dumb Because the robots. So
if you think about the
hardware, the hardware, the motors
and time, if you think
about the research is getting
it to be lower cost,
smaller, more power, more torque,
those, those issues aren't helping,
the robot becomes smarter. What's
really making these robots smarter
is intelligence is the software
programming. So if you notice
there's been a lot of
issues, I would say drama
about artificial intelligence lately in
the news about how we
need to be careful about
AI and robotics, because you
know, we're doing to create
our own destiny of being
eliminated. And why is that?
Because if you have robots,
which are, if you think
about physically they're functional, they
can do things just like
us. And if you add
that, the ability for them
to be intelligent and think,
and not run into walls
and navigate intelligently and figure
out how to do things
new. Well, then what happens,
what happens to these robots
that are as functional as
us, and maybe can think
better than maybe half the
population at some point, or
learn faster than us. You
know, there's this fear that
we're, we're doomed to a
destiny where there will be
no more humankind. Ah, okay.
So tying that back to
what you were saying about
using the existing pieces of
hardware that these children have,
it really is the magic
of the software. That's allowing
you to take a basic
joystick. And as you said,
filtering, maybe you can talk
a little bit about that
filtering the input because not
everyone can simply push forward
on a joystick and have
it be intentionally forward. Right?
So as an example, if
you think about a joystick
movements, you call that are
uncontrollable are unintentional. So it
might be that I have
tremors are, it might be
that I want to go
forward, but I can only
make a little bit of
a movement. So just, just
a little bit of a,
if you look at the
angles, you know, maybe a
five degree angle versus someone
who is fully capable can
do a a hundred degree
angle. So how do I
take that same joystick that's
used in different ways and
have it say control an
application where you can navigate
a YouTube channel. So in
that one is, you know,
if you think about a
YouTube channel, you go in
and the functions you need
are pretty much some type
of search and play and
stop. And so how do
you have a joystick that
goes from five degrees to
90 degrees give you the
same function as you know,
I want to hit the
play button. Wow. Okay. So
that, that is now kind
of changing my, the way
that I'm thinking about the
relationship with software to hardware,
that the hardware really is
the smaller part of the
problem. It's just how you
process those signals, that input
from the hardware. That is
where all the magic is.
Yeah. The magic is in
the software. I mean, hardware
getting it to be robust
and reliable is difficult, but
making it so that it
works intelligently, it's a software,
it's definitely the software. So
that would explain why my
robot's always smashed into the
walls is that I'm simply
telling them really basic stuff
like go forward. And I'm
not thinking at all about
getting feedback back from those
modes. Right. We have a
saying garbage in garbage out.
So if you put programming
garbage in, you're going to
get programmed behavior out. Absolutely.
I will be sure not
to tell my children that,
but I think, Oh no,
you have to be very
kind with that. So you've
got applications for tablets and
I've, I've seen, I've seen
one of the applications you
have coming soon is called
the Zoomo learning system. Yes.
So the Zoomer learning system
is a unique approach to
this assessability. So what we
found was that younger kids,
primarily, if you think about
a child who's first been
diagnosed with a disability, they
haven't quite gotten to learn
how to say controller joystick
with intent, how do start
teaching them or training them,
having them to do therapy
in a way that feels
natural. And so kids actually
enjoy toys. It doesn't matter
whether you have a disability
or not. There's something about
having the ability to play
and to interact with your
world. And so Zoomo is
a device and inside of
it as the same brain
as the system that allows
you to connect the joystick
to the tablet, same brain.
But what we do is
we put it into a,
it's basically a stuffed animal
where we can isolate movements
using sensors so that you
can interact with your toy
companion, for example, but still
interact with your tablet. And
so the design of it
is that it, it actually
has a joystick design. So
as you learn how to
move your hand in the
forward and backward left and
right direction, you're actually also
training yourself how to have
intent with, say, for example,
a joystick. Interesting. And then
what other sensors that you're
using in the, in the
controllers inside there? Is there
a brain in there or
are you running that through
the tablet? No, no, no.
There's, there's a brain in
there and we use something
you can think of it
as a force sensor force,
resistive sensors. So equivalent to
that, basically we're looking at
aspects of pressure, which has
also filtered out. So if
a child has very little,
basically they have very little,
have very little ability to
apply a pressure versus a
child who can bang away.
How do you take that?
And also convert it into
these, you know, swipe and
pinch gestures on the tablet.
Are you making generic algorithms
or are you making algorithms
that can tune themselves or
that a parent can tune?
So right now the algorithms
are self adaptive. So they
are taking and we have,
in some of our apps,
we actually have the ability
to learn basically a learning
behavior. So they self adapt.
Now they don't self adapt.
I E as I'm, you
have to tell it, I
need you to self adapt
right now, at least. And
because we don't want the,
the behavior to change. So
as soon as you have
it working, you don't want
the behavior to start changing
because it's trying to improve
it unless the parent or
the therapist or the special
ed teacher wants that. And
so you basically have to,
so there's where the, the
unintelligent part is, is you
actually have to tell the
software. It is basically just
a little button. Okay. I
want you to learn. I
want you to adapt versus
not. I see. So you,
you improve it and then
you reach a plateau and
you stay at that plateau.
So it is reliable and
it can be counted on
by the child. And then
if the child wants to
improve again, or if maybe
they have regressed in some
way physically, then, then you
can relearn and find a
new model. Correct? Correct. Exactly.
Okay. In looking through your
extensive scholarly works and it's,
it's really amazing worked on
it. It's such a wide
variety of things. One thing
stood out to me that
I wanted to understand this,
this term, soft computing and
soft computing strategies and soft
computing approaches. Can you explain
that to me in layman's
terms? So soft computing is
a, I would say a
field of knowledge that is
designed to imitate how people
think. So as an example,
what belongs in the soft
computing world is methodology such
as fuzzy logic. And so
fuzzy logic is if you
think about how we drive,
so we drive a car,
and if you ever had
a teenager, you had to
teach how to drive. You
know, you would say, okay,
when you get to this
corner, you do a hard
left, or, you know, you
gently step on the gas
while you're turning. He use
terms like that. You don't
say, okay, you need to
turn your wheel 20 degrees
and oppress your foot down
with 20 Newtons. You don't
use that kind of language.
You use this very linguistic
type of information, and yet
we know how to take
that and control whatever it
is that we need to
example the car. But we
know that based on so
much context, like context that
we're not even thinking about,
right. You know, years of
context, Right? So fuzzy logic,
what it attempts to do
is it attempts to encapsulate
some of this information as
a set of linguistic rules
and the engine behind it
to take all this knowledge
and come up with a
valid control methodology, because at
the end of the day,
you still have hardware. So
as an example, if you
have a car that needs
to drive based on fuzzy
logic, at the end of
the day, you still have
to provide it a certain
amount of volts. You have
certain amount of torque, a
certain amount of information. So
you still have this linguistic
information, but it also still
has to be converted. Ah,
okay. And in, in, in
the context of my world,
which is the web development
world, sometimes I feel like
there's only maybe three or
four layers of abstraction between
me and, you know, kind
of machine code. Maybe that's
overstating, let's say maybe six
to 10. You know what
I mean? I can get
down pretty quickly and see
where the assembler is and
where the registers are. You
know, I have a garbage
collector, but for the most
part, there's only a few
layers when I'm building large
systems like this, this is
systems that have soft computing
understanding. Are you quite a
bit deeper in the, in
the call stack? Is there
quite a few more layers
of abstraction? Yeah. You're actually
higher up in the levels
of abstraction. And the, the
concept of one of the,
I would say critiques about
it is that some people
look at it as, as
a black box. So I
can define inputs. I can
define outputs and the system
itself figures out what's inside,
which yeah, because you know
what goes in and you
assume that what comes out
is what you want. But
how that is organized is
uncertain, which is also the
fear, because it might be
organized such that if you
get a different set of
inputs, it does something you
don't want it to do.
And I'm going back a
little bit in time here,
but when you worked on
a soft computing approach for
navigating planetary rovers, this is
almost 15 years ago. Did
you ever find yourself when
testing robots on other planets
that, you know, I, I
told it to go over
this rock and I don't
know why it did that.
And then you spend a
lot of time debugging. Like
we have no clue why
the Rover thought that was
a good idea, but It
did. Yeah. And we, we
ultimately figure out why it
did what it did. Cause
you own the algorithm. Exactly.
I own the algorithm. I
mean, it's usually because the
input was noisy a lot
of times it's because the
input was noisy. So what
I observed it was doing
the right thing. But what
I observed did not, it
was not compatible with what
input it was actually getting.
There's usually what, what the
reason was, or it, I
gave you some inputs that
it had no idea what
to do with it. So
it just classified it as
something totally different. And so
I'm looking, I'm like, why
is it doing that is
because I gave it garbage
as far as it was
concerned. And he said, well,
I need to do something
with this. So I'm going
to do what is my
closest approximation. So yeah, you
could look under the hood
and figure it out. But
as of course, it's cause
you know, I'm designing the
algorithm. So I know exactly
where to look, Hey, this
is Scott. You know, I
like a good community edition.
The best things in life
are free. And the community
license from our sponsors sync
fusion will give individual and
small business developers access to
more than 650 components across
12 platforms. And that includes
WPF and windows forms, JavaScript,
Xamarin, Lightswitch. You can check
it all out at sync,
fusion.com/hanselman to claim your free
license. One of my, one
of my favorite programmer jokes
is that, you know, a
nontechnical nontechnical spouse says, you
know, would you go to
the grocery store and buy
some bread? And if they
have eggs by six, so
then the, you know, the
engineer goes and says, okay,
and comes back later with
six loaves of bread and
the nontechnical spouses, what did
you do? Why don't you
buy six loaves of bread?
And the engineer says, well,
they had a By six
because you prefaced it with
the bread. If that makes
total sense, Total sense, you
know, but again, garbage in
garbage out, like why did
you not, if they have
X by six, you know,
for bread, I just run
the program. It seems like,
it seems like accessible fuzzy
logic for me, for the
non PhD for the person
who's doing a small project,
is this, is this possible?
Or there is fuzzy logic.
Something that I can apply
to my robotics projects with.
Oh yes, definitely. Definitely. And
in fact, I find that
as long as you are
comfortable with them, not having
to look inside the box,
you can totally explain to
them how fuzzy logic is
used in, in the, in
the much more abstract sense.
And so you can create
a entire fuzzy logic Sysmex,
for example, with the robot
hitting the wall, a good
example is if close to
wall, turn left, I can
understand that. Right. And I
can, and I have a
system where I can say
if close, and so then
it's like, okay, what is
close? Well, let's see what
sensors do we have. Okay.
We're going to say close
is, you know, five centimeters
or 20 centimeters. And so
that's where you put your
human knowledge or expertise in.
And then what's left is,
you know, anywhere from 45
degrees to 120 degrees, we
don't care. We're just going
to classify left as, as
general range, a person who
isn't techie can understand how
to do that. And they
can understand that this is
the, this is the inherent
behavior. The intrinsic behavior of
this robot is it doesn't
like being up against that
wall. It's going to turn
left and then I'll work
around it. And they'll they'll.
And they'll begin to understand
it and build that into
their design. Correct? Correct. You
have described your research as
being centered around humanized intelligence.
What does that mean humans?
So my goal with my
research and in all of
my projects is to design
robots that can function in
our world with us or
to help us. And in
order to do that, we
can't assume that the human
is going to change. I
mean, they'll adapt a little
bit, cause like touching them
swiping every time you go,
even to a bank teller,
like, okay, wait, there's a
keyboard. What does this mean?
So we have changed our
behavior quite drastically. So I'm
always so disappointed. I can't
pinch and zoom on the
GPS in my car. I'm
like, So we, we do
adapt to technology. And so
it's not that we don't
want humans or people to
adapt to robotics, but we
don't want to force that.
And so therefore the best
way to design robotic technology
is to design robots that
function like people are function
so that when they do
things it's intuitive to a
person. And so that's this
whole concept of humanized intelligence.
What makes us as intelligent
creatures? What makes us intelligent
through our behaviors, through our
movement patterns, through what we
do, not necessarily how we
think, but the outcome of
how we think. Okay. So
these, these systems, these robots,
as you call them these
autonomous systems, they have a
path that they're going to
go through to get their
job done. And you're injecting
the human intelligence into that
process that the human is
almost a partner to the,
to the, to the robot.
Human is definitely a partner,
definitely partner. So as an
example, if I'm designing a
robot wheelchair as an example,
the best way to do
that would be have the
user operate their wheelchair with
whatever device they have and
start recording that data, see
what their preference are, is
maybe they're, you know, a
hot rodder and they like
to go really fast or
maybe they're very slow and
cautious and they don't go
out too often. So I
can take that information and
take the inputs in terms
of the sensors and their
behaviors, and then create a
system that mimics that for
that one person. So that
would be an example of
taking how a human operates
in the world and creating
a control system, a logic
system that functions as they
do so that when they
are in this wheelchair and
they're navigating, if something happens,
the robot can take over
and it's like, Oh wait,
hold on. This is a
little bit different than what
they're normally doing. There must
be something that's wrong or,
you know, maybe they're tired
and things like that. So,
but when you're saying that
you could make a system
for this individual kind of
calling back to the very
beginning, you can't necessarily do
that for an individual, but
maybe you could build a
fuzzy logic control system that
can take recorded input and
Right. And, and it, and
it learns for that person.
So if you think about
the software, but the underlying
program is the same. What's
different is that when you
put it on a personalized
system, it learns a different
behavior. And so my robot
is going to be different
than your robot because my
behaviors are different, but the
software is the same. Interesting.
And that is that kind
of idea that, that, that
Holy grail of the intelligent
agent, where you've had a
computer for some number of
years, and you have, you
know, maybe, maybe not a
relationship with it, but a
definite enough affinity for it.
You have an affinity, right?
You have a relationship though.
I mean, they've done studies
to show that. I mean,
just like you have your
car and a lot of
people are just so upset
when they have to get
rid of their very first
car that they ever had.
But even if it was
a junky car, you know,
you do establish relationships with
technology and having a robot
is going to be no
different. So you just kind
of blew my mind there
for a second because you're
absolutely right. If you're, you've
got your manual very first,
my $300 first manual shift
car, it had so many
problems, you know, but I
knew what I needed to
do. So that was my
robot. I had a partnership
with that robot. I knew
how to shift it and
when to downshift and how
to move it, to get
it, to do what I
wanted it to do. Exactly.
Exactly. It was, it was,
it was beautiful in its,
in, in its imperfection, But
you accepted its imperfections. I
think that's the trick. People
have such high expectations of
technology now where if something
doesn't work or hiccups, they
just kind of declare it,
Oh, this sucks. Now that
pension zoom wasn't recognized, you
know, so there's some things
we will not tolerate, like
lack of reaction to input
is unacceptable from a user
interface perspective. Correct. So there
are certain, so there are
some things we will accept
and there's certain things we
won't accept as an example.
I would love it if,
when I go into my
computer and get that little,
little icon that says I'm
working, could you just tell
me why it could just
say, you know, my, my
Ram is a little bit
imploded or, you know, Oh,
guess what you're also doing,
or we're doing a backup
in the background that you
didn't know about. And that's
why I would love it.
I would not be as
frustrated if you actually told
me the reason why I'm
having to wait here. And
so I think what's unique
about robotic systems is that
they can do that. They
can say, look, I wasn't
trained to do this, you
know? Or, you know, I'm
sorry, I'm about to make
a mistake because you know,
I'm assuming a, B, C,
or D, or even just
sitting, I'm sorry. I think
those are the things that
will make robots more acceptable
than say, you know, my,
my system that just freezes
for absolutely no reason, at
least I can see, It's
funny. I feel like we're
always on the cusp. Like
I can, I can see
this robot that I don't
have yet. This one that
doesn't exist because I can,
I can hear him or
her in Siri, occasionally, like
he's in there, but he
has no body. And then
Siri will do something stupid.
I'm like, Oh, I don't
want a stupid robot. And
I can, I can see
him as I, you know,
move my, my kids are
doing all robots around, but
you know, but they're not
attached to Siri. Have you
seen the trailer for the
movie chappy yet? Yes I
have. Yes. Yes. The return
of Johnny five from a
short circuit. Yeah. Johnny five
was an interesting, yes. I
think that, that's what we
want though. We want that,
that, that, that friend, that,
that companion for the kids,
the babysitter, the Butler That
learns that is a partner,
social partner. That's exciting. That's
engaging that caters to your
every, or at least tries
to your ever every need.
I think we do want
that. And I truly believe
we will get to that
point, but it will be
very specialized. It's one of
those things we say is
that every time we get
closer, the definition changes as
an example. If you think
about your phone and Siri,
you know, if I gave
that to you say, 50
years ago, and I said,
this is what the future
looks like. People would be
like, Oh my gosh, I
can talk to it. And
it does this and that,
all this is amazing. This
is intelligent. And now we're
like, Oh, it's a program.
So our definition of, you
know, what's grand and what's
artificial intelligence and what's robotics
changes as we get closer
to the goal. And so
in one aspect, it's this
until we get a choppy,
but even when we get
a chappy, I think it's
going to be a, well,
it's a little stupid. It
has to learn why can't
I just press the button?
And it just knows. I
think we're just always gonna
redefine what it is that
we want. It's like Louis
C K says, Everything's amazing.
And nobody's happy. Yes, exactly.
Now I know that you
have a passion for, for
STEM and for getting kids
involved in, in technology. I've
got little boys, a seven
year old and a nine
year old. And when I
introduced robots and, and by
robots, I mean, you know,
Arduinos and motors, the first
thing that they said is,
Oh, we're going to make
a robot that will go
and get mommy, a soda
pop and bring it to
her. And I just, I
we've been working on this
for a couple of years
now, and I just don't
have the, the heart to
explain to them that there's
so much involved With getting
to that point. Just, just
go over to the fridge.
What's the fridge, you know,
like this, we've got it,
basically. So if it starts
at a specific place, it
can make it there. But
if anything goes wrong on
the way, it doesn't make
it. How do you, how
do you get kids who
are excited about STEM, excited
about working towards this thing
that may never happen. We
may ask them tonically approach
and never reached chappy without
discouraging them. We'll see. I
think there's a difference between
what you can do at
a certain age and then
what's out there. So as
an example, there are robots
now that I can start
at at any arbitrary location
and say, go get, and
it comes back. Now the
cost price is not something
that I can buy, but
it does exist. There's robots
out there that, I mean,
even not just in the
U S but in Japan
and overseas, that can grab
things and open them and
pop a bottle. And you
can have it fee people.
I mean, these things do
exist again. The price point
is quite, quite a lot.
I mean, even if you
think of something as people
might think of, as, as
simple as Roomba the vacuum
cleaner and, and think about
it, I have a vacuum
cleaner. I can put it
in the middle of the
floor are not, or I
put in the corner and
guess what? It does one
thing. And it doesn't very
well, but it's a vacuum
cleaner, but do you know
what goes into that to
make it so that it's
robust and it actually vacuums,
and it doesn't break down
in the middle of the
floor and say, I don't
know what this cat is.
I'm just going to do
nothing. Just sit here. I
mean, there's a lot that
went into that. And so
I think with kids, it's
giving them the skills, whether
it's the raspberry PI or
their Draino to build, but
then also showing them what's
nice about the internet is
that all of this stuff
is online. It's on videos.
People are giving talks about
it, but show them as
like, look, you keep with
this and you can create,
you know, the pepper, which
is the new platform that's
coming out. Social robotics are,
you can then create, you
know, the next PR too,
which is a robot that
they were using for individuals
are, you can create. And
so I think is showing
them both worlds. It's saying,
you know, this is what
you can do so that
you are prepared to build
these great, wonderful things in
the future. The I'll put
links to all of the
stuff that we've mentioned in
the show notes here. I'm
looking at at pepper here,
pepper is a little small
person, little, maybe three and
a half foot tall, but
it's not just a, it's
not just a Dalek. She
seems to have a waist
and she can turn and
move in very fluid and
very natural ways without necessarily
going into the uncanny Valley.
Right. And if you look
at the price point, which
is a good link, it's
not what I would consider
that expensive. How much is
pepper? I'm, I'm, I've, I'm
looking at pictures. I haven't
got to the buy now.
Cause sometimes I find things
like this and I'm like,
where's the shut up and
take my money. You see,
unfortunately, they are not selling
it in the U S
but if you go overseas,
you're good to go. I
think I'd last point I
saw was about 1900. I
don't know if that was
European dollars or U S
It's not the $20,000. No,
that's what I'm saying. That's
that's reasonable. That's, you know,
times four I-phones I mean,
of in the reasonable domain.
I think one of the
things that I think is
interesting about our conversation here
is that you, you keep
bringing it back to kind
of reality, but I keep
going to movies. I feel
like I've already recommended movies
and books to you. I
think it just shows the
different worlds that we live
in. You know, someone with
actual robotics experience versus someone
whose entire perspective of robotics
is filtered through pop culture.
Well, but you know what?
I actually watched all of
these movies as well. Oh
no. In fact, I love
them because honestly, when you
watch, I don't read as
much as I should, but
definitely with the TV shows
and the movies, there's always
some truth in it. There's
always some shoes. In fact,
you look at it. You
know, one of my favorite
is surrogate with, with Bruce Willis.
I look at that, I'm
like, Oh my gosh, if
you only knew how close
we are to that, it's
kind of scary, but it's,
it's you see it. And
it's like, I know someone
who's working on that part
and that part and that
part. And when they get
it to the point where
it can be integrated together,
where there, and so I
look at these movies because
I look at it, I'm
like, Oh yeah, that exists.
It's those working on that?
Oh yeah. That exists. So
it's working on that. That's
amazing. And you actually know
them. You're like, you'll be
watching a movie. Just say,
you know, I'm going to
call Jeff and tell him
Yes, That's cool. Yeah. The,
the surrogate to there's a
great book by John Scalzi
called lock-in, which extends that
concept of surrogate even even
further. And the movie that
I was just thinking about
is robot and Frank. Oh,
that's a beautiful movie. Isn't
it just a wonderful, and
they actually had a ballerina
in the robot to get
it, to move the way
they wanted it to move.
A little tiny ballerina was
in there that I did
not know she was about
four foot six or something
like that. They had two
different dancers in there because
they wanted the robot to
move human, but robotically human.
Interesting. I did not know
this. That's a wonderful, wonderful
movie. I think we'll, we'll
end on that. And I
want to encourage people to
check out what you're doing
is I robotics and they
can certainly go on Google
and search for dr. Anna Howard
and read all about some
of the amazing stuff that
you've done and the products
that you guys have at
Sarah robotics. Is there anything
else I should be sure
to point people towards? No.
And you know, definitely if
you have kids encourage them
and STEM, we still need
it is really important, whether
it was computer science or
engineering or math, I think
is one of the things
that we will be in
trouble if we don't produce
more engineers and scientists. So
there's still room at the
top. We should encourage the
kids to go there. Yes,
definitely. Fantastic. Thank you so
much, dr. Anna Howard, this has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.